So the next one we're gonna
work on is use layout effect.
This is a kind of particular hook that
you're really should only rarely use.
So as you can see it has
the term use effect.
It's very,
very similar to effect to use effect, and
what I wanna say is you should
almost always use effect.
Use layout effect is peculiar for
one reason.
With use effect,
your effect is scheduled to happen later.
You actually don't have
a guarantee of when that is,
that could be immediately,
that could be another milliseconds.
Usually not more than like
a millisecond later but
my point being is that
it's a synchronous and
therefore you cannot reliably say this
is the next thing that's gonna happen.
With use layout effect is that you
are guaranteed that it's synchronous it's
the next thing that's gonna happen.
So with this layout effect component,
it's going to render and then guaranteed
synchronously the next thing that it's
going to happen is use layout effect.
If you were doing use effect, it could be,
something else could happen
between now and then.
Now you might be thinking why do I care?
Typically you don't, right?
Do you care if you make a API call now or
in like a half millisecond?
You don't really care, right?
Functionally to you and
your user, it's the same thing.
And it's better because react can do
a bunch of performance optimizations and,
future optimizations that we
don't know about yet, right?
So in other words, always use, use effect,
only use the layout effect for
one of two reasons.
The first one is what I'm showing you
here and let's take a look at this.
I had this little text area here and
I have this thing that measures it.
This is when you want
to use Layout effect.
Because now I can actually
precisely measure my DOM and
I can be guaranteed that
as soon as this ends I'm
getting the precise measurement of this
whenever this click and drag finishes.
With use effect I have less guarantees
of when that's going to run.
So I don't know if I'm gonna get precisely
the the measurement that I want, right?
So in other words for like, that's why
it's called use layout effect is because
it's mostly used for
like measuring for like animations or
things that need to be moved
around the DOM, right?
That's what use layout effect is for.
It's for those kinds of precise things we,
the measurements end up
being really important.
That's what it's made for,
that's the whole use case right there.
The other interesting application for
this is,
is this is how component
did mount used to work.
If you remember in class components that
we talked about in intro, we had there was
a life cycle method on class
components called component did mount.
This is the same way that
component demounted worked.
So if you're migrating from a class
component to a function component and
it matters to you how
that was being called,
this is how you can emulate that behavior
perfectly, as opposed to use effect.
Which has a slight semantic difference
in terms of when it acts execute.
However, this should be a temporary fix,
you should always try and
eventually get to use the fact instead
of hacking apart use layout effect.
Again, I've only ever had to use this for
animations.
So that's really the only thing I
can think of to tell you when you
should use layout effect.